# Tuning Manifold Charting: the Official Code Base for the Manifold Paper: 


## Dataset Structure
Our formatted and reduced neural dataset is stored in `.mat` format as a structure array, which can be accessed from Matlab or Python. 

* Each experimental session has one struct corresponding to Evolution, and one struct corresponding to Manifold experiment. 
* Array is organized in the order of experiment time for each monkey. 

We provide download links for these formatted data in `data` subfolder. 

Some analyses require access to the image data folder, which will be hosted and downloadable online. 

## Code Structure
Our code is written in Matlab and Python. Matlab for experimental control, most statistical analysis of *in vivo* data, while Python esp. pytorch for the *in silico* experiment and modelling.

### Deep neural networks `DNN`
We curated a library of deep neural nets classes to use in our analysis, some implemented in matlab, some interfaced with pytorch implementation. These classes are used both in online experiments and analysis. 

* Weight for our matlab implementation of FC6GAN is hosted in xxxx.

### Black box optimization algorithms `optimizers`
We open source our adaption of `Cholesky-CMA-ES` optimization algorithms, and the `ZOHA_Sphere` algorithms for the constrained optimization on the hyper-surface of a sphere. 

Test and demo code, to be added. 

### Experimental Control `experiment_ctrl`
Our experiments are controlled by custom Matlab script using Monkeylogic, with the image generator in matlab. The manifold image explorations are generated by Python / matlab after the Evolution finish. 

### Data Analysis `analysis`
* Receptive field mapping. 
* Evolution trajectory analysis 
	* Successfulness.
	* Coordinate of the best generation. 
	* Convergence speed. 
* Single Tuning Map Characterization
	* Tuning Map, basic stats (ANOVA, F statistics).(`calc_tune_stats`)
	* Kent function fitting of tuning map, extract Kent parameters. (`analysis\Kent_func`)
	* Non-parametric statistics of tuning maps: Volume under the Surface (VUS), Peak location
	* Dirichlet energy of tuning map as measure of smoothness. 
	* Population analysis: across areas, SU-MU pair `Manif_Map_Stat_Pop_Synopsis.m`, `Manif_Map_SUMU_cmp.m`
* Radial Tuning Curve analysis
	* Image distance matrix using LPIPS and various image distance measure.
	* Radial Tuning curve over several different spaces; AUC for tuning curve. 
* Relationship between Evolution trajectory and Manifold tuning
	* Peak location
	* Sharpness 
* Evolution trajectory comparison in Full space vs 50dim space
	* Evolution analysis code. 
	* Plotting average evolution trajectory
* Tuning Map Similarity 
	* Geometry of electrode organization. `Extract_Channel_Organization.m`, `spikeID2cortexDist`
	* Measuring tuning map similarity by functional correlation on manifold
	* Tuning map similarity as a function to cortical distance `Manif_Map_SpatialRelation.m`
	* Tuning map similarity of SU-MU pairs `Manif_Map_SUMU_corr.m`
* Naive Bayes Decoding

### Plotting `visualization`
Some of our specialized plotting function
* Plot single tuning maps with colored framed image / color maps.(Figure 2B)
* Plot multiple tuning maps in an montage.(Figure 3A,5A)
* Plot radial tuning curves.(Figure 2D)
* Summarize score trajectory during Evolution (Figure 3F)
* Plot tuning maps in the same configuration as the electrode array. (Figure 5)

Other more generic plotting functions (inspired by `Seaborn` library in Python)
* Violin plot (wrap around [Violinplot-Matlab](https://github.com/bastibe/Violinplot-Matlab))
* Paired stripe plots, stripe plots with masks. 

